www.mobserver.co.za is in possession of a complaint lodged with Municipal Manager Mr Bheki Khenisa and the municipality’s internal audit department by municipal library personnel, demanding an investigation into a number of irregularities they claim is eating away at the municipal money coffers. Library personnel allege that stationary prices are being inflated on quotes, after having been received. Personnel have named and shamed the culprits in the complaint, and while they are known to www.mobserver.co.za, they cannot be identified until charges have been formally brought against them. One of the culprits allegedly secured two tenders for her husband, one for washing municipal vehicles and the other for supply and delivery of daily newspapers to the libraries, personnel allege. They claim that at most, three vehicles are being washed behind one of the libraries every Friday at R150 per vehicle, while newspapers are not being delivered.
Personnel further allege that municipal stationery is being used for own purposes. Another manager that personnel are complaining about, stands accused of booking overtime, over years, despite arriving and leaving work at her own leisure.
The woman is also alleged to have solicited “bribes” for the extension of a catering contract. “Some of the service fees paid at libraries, even at branch libraries, are not banked but fetched, check the library records for the gaps, library assistants can confirm it,” the complaint reads. Staff say libraries original wish lists for the purchasing of books compiled by assistants with prices do not match invoices. “Request the wish lists and verify them against the invoices,” staff urge, adding that a former library colleague’s company had been used on the book procurement. “During an audit, lists of books received from the province during 2018/2019 and 2019/2020 were fronted to quash an audit inquiry on missing municipal library books, always check the lists against the actual books,” the complaint alleges. Lastly, the staff demanded that all meetings be recorded due to “unprofessionalism” and the fact that they are regularly sworn at. According to Mr Khenisa, an internal investigation into the allegations is being conducted.