The Clean and Safe Project was dreamed up in a quest to save the CBD from decline. The installation of the camera system was part of the project. The cameras were installed in 2018. Elsa du Toit, a DA councillor who has spearheaded the project, said that all the equipment is in place, and the capability is there, but that the problem lies with implementing the project to do the work it was supposed to. Ms Du Toit, who has seen the cameras in action, says that crystal clear material of crime in the CBD exists. The practised eyes of camera operators are quick to spot crimes about to happen or crimes in progress. Sadly, the material is only utilised on the rare occasion that victims open criminal cases and the investigating officer approaches the camera control room with a subpoena in hand. Footage not used in this matter goes to waste. Ms Du Toit has been denied access to the control room in recent times. The Steve Tshwete Municipality announced during a council sitting that 15 newly appointed peace officers have been sent to the City of Cape Town for training on matters, such as how the Integrated Intelligence Command Centre works. The training will cost the taxpayer R2.8 million. The Middelburg Observer asked the City of Cape Town to explain how their system works in order to know how our system is supposed to work. Richard Bosman, Executive Director for Safety and Security, said that their camera system is monitored 24-hours a day. It is linked with the metro police control room and camera operators are also in contact with neighbourhood watch members. Members of neighbourhood watch groups can request camera operators to monitor suspicious activity and operators can request members to move to a specific area, should they be needed. CCTV supervisors in Cape Town attend weekly meetings with the police to identify crime trends and hotspots, so they can focus on certain areas. “We also try to link all uniformed staff, such as traffic services, metro police, law enforcement and Central Improvement District (CID) offices to our CCTV Centre via radios, to assist with the response to incidents,” Mr Bosman said. Suspicious vehicles and people are flagged and a Licence Plate Recognition (LPR) system is loaded with information regarding said vehicles. The system can also be used to recall number plates of specific vehicles in the area during a crime incident. The LPR system can be used to alert operators of flagged vehicles dropping off drug consignments. Mr Bosman said that camera placement and good co-operation with foot patrollers are crucial to the success of the system. “A crime hotspot today may not be there tomorrow, so it is better to place cameras in a manner to maximise camera coverage.” • Another Safe and Clean Project initiative was that of establishing City Improvement District structures where the CBD is divided into different sections. Building and business owners are then bundled together and have to pay a levy. In return, they get to identify needs specific to their area and tailor-made solutions. It has also not come to light yet, although Mr Khenisa did mention it during a meeting with the Chamber of Commerce. • A reliable source said that there has been movement in the past two weeks in getting the camera system implemented and establishing communication lines and a formal agreement between the police and camera operators. Another source said that police members, taking drugs off drug runners and letting them go, has also been witnessed on the cameras. • Requests by the Middelburg Observer to sit down with STLM Municipal Manager Mr Bheki Khenisa, to discuss the camera system, were denied. A media enquiry was then mailed to Prudence Magutle, the municipal spokesperson. The paper wanted to know which company was responsible for the monitoring of the cameras, how much the instalment of the system cost, how much the monthly costs for the camera system amounts to and if there is any form of link with the police, neighbourhood watch groups or security companies. • Minutes of a meeting between Mr Khenisa and the Chamber of Commerce on 21 October noted raising concerns about the state of the CBD. Lack of maintenance and the vacancy rate of buildings, as well as cleanliness and security concerns, were mentioned. A statistic, that CBD property values have dropped between 4% and 6%, was mentioned. Mr Khenisa repeated the planned CID structures, where local business owners have a direct say about issues being addressed in their direct environment. He also made mention of the peace officers currently busy with training in Cape Town, and a budget for a municipal court, magistrate and prosecutor to deal with municipal infringements.