 This was Retha Ligthelm’s first day at work as a journalist. She sat between her mother and father on a couch in my office. There was concern about a farm girl who had to face the cruel, hard world of journalism. I had to solemnly undertake to lead a new journalist into the unknown and strange world of chasing news. In this manner there were many young journalists over the years each one with his own unique first-day at work.
There was Wilhelm de Swardt who fell over his own feet and let the tea-tray tip over. There was Buks Viljoen who sat there, straight and determined in his neat suit of clothes, rather looking like someone on his way to a church service. Lizel Steenkamp, full of self-confidence. Daleen Naude, who was brought to the office by her mother-in-law. Johann Gresse – his mother was very concerned over whether he had to write stories, as well as do all the other work… Jana Boshoff was like a cat on a hot tin roof, offering to buy her own diesel as long as she could get the job. It’s a long list; precious times, family ties still as strong as ever even after years. Three years ago Tiisetso Malunga’s mother, Yvonne, dropped her off at the office. A girl – from Pretoria who studied at Tshwane University, and who now had to make her mark as a journalist in a platteland town… A mother and daughter who walked the road of life very intensely together. Mom Yvonne who began work as cashier at Builder’s Warehouse and through hard work and dedication was promoted to sales co-ordinator. I could see the uncertainty in Yvonne’s eyes as she probably wondered whether her only daughter would survive in Middelburg. Very quietly I would provide her with feedback about the young journalist’s progress.
She always asked: “What is wrong?” When I told her she had done a good job as a mother and that she should be proud of her daughter, there was always an audible sigh of relief and joy in her voice. In 2019 Tiisetso was crowned as upcoming journalist of the year. Mom Yvonne (47) was so proud of her daughter. Last week was probably one of her greatest moments, when she became a grandmother of a little girl – Tiisetso’s first child. The same week Yvonne was brutally gunned down by burglars in her Soshanguve home… Murdered for her plasma television set…