 The following restaurants in Middelburg are ready to serve their loyal patrons: •Piatto Restaurant & Grill: Manager Chris Nicholas is happy to announce that they have celebrated their reopening today. They have already restructured the seating to ensure that the company complies with social distancing as well as other regulations. Chris says the Piatto team is ready to serve their patrons as best they can under circumstances. Their trading hours are as follows:
Mondays to Sundays from 08:00 – 21:00. •Go2 Steakhouse: Owner of Go2 Steakhouse, Nick van Rensburg, is pleased to announce that they will reopen on Tuesday. Ready to serve visitors of the Loskop area, Nick acknowledges that the Go2 team are suffering of withdrawal symptoms and are excited to host company. Clients can look forward to visiting the bushveld gem from Tuesdays to Fridays from 09:00 – 19:00 and 09:00 – 20:00 on Saturdays and Sundays. •Café Barista: Remains closed until further notice. • Ginelli’s invites the public to come and experience ‘The New Normal’. Staff has been trained and the restaurant layout adapted to ensure safety measures are adhered to. Hannelin Combrink says they are excited to open and ready to serve. The restaurant will open their doors for sit-down patrons from tomorrow (Tuesday 30 June). • Pizza Del Forno has already opened their doors for sit-down patrons and say that it is business as usual for them. Although no reservations are needed, it is advised to call ahead and check whether a table is available during peak times. The restaurant is open from 09:00 to 21:00 daily. • Rustique will not be opening at this stage. Owner Phillip Heyns says that he will only consider opening the restaurant once the selling of alcohol is permitted on the premises. In the meantime he is involved in discussions with a third party to utilize the hotel as a quarantine facility but no final decisions have been made. • Cappuccinos in the mall is officially open to the public from Monday to Sunday from 08:00 till 19:00. According to management strict access control measures have been implemented to keep diners to a minimum and in order to comply with sanitary and social distance regulations. The public is advised to book in advance. Screenings will also be done on entering the restaurant. • Both Nando’s outlets in the mall and in the CBD have opened for the public for sit down service. Due to its nature, not many residents sit down to eat their meals at Nando’s but rather prefer take-away orders.
Nonetheless, Nando’s will screen diners thoroughly and also adhere to strict social distancing rules. No alcohol will be sold as per government regulations. • Panarotti’s in the mall will only be opening this coming Friday. The restauant is presently being disinfected and old stock will be replaced by new stock which will arrive on Wednesday. From Friday the restaurant will again be open for dine in lunches and dinners from Mondays to Sundays. Breakfasts has been pulled from the Panarottis menu for now. • Old Boys Pub & Grill will not be opening for dine in meals at present.
Owner Aletta Jones says the restaurant is however preparing pre-ordered meals from its menu for collection or delivery. Restaurante oop • Mug & Bean Koffiehuis in die Middelburg Mall het reeds Saterdag sy deure geopen en sal elke dag vanaf 08:00-17:00 oop wees. • The Daily Coffee Café by die Midwater Sentrum het vanoggend om 07:00 geopen. Hulle is weeksdae oop vanaf 07:00-17:00, Saterdae vanaf 07:00-15:00 en Sondae vanaf 07:00-13:00. • Die Dros het ook vandag sy deure geopen en sal vir middagete (vanaf 12:00) beskikbaar wees. Soos die voorgeskrewe regulasies verlang, sal daar temperatuuur toetsstasies wees, ontsmettingsmiddels vir hande, ’n register wat ingevul word en afstand tussen kliënte. • Ocean Basket by die Midwater Sentrum se span is tans besig met vergaderings, maar daar is laat weet dat hulle beslis so spoedig moontlik hul deure sal open. • Bro’s Lava Rock Restaurant by die Fountain Square Sentrum is al lankal oop vir wegneem-etes, maar kliënte kan nou daagliks ook gaan aansit vir etes vanaf 09:00-17:00. • Buffalo Lake Spur by die Midwater Sentrum doen reeds wegneem-etes en aflewerings, maar sal op die laatste teen Donderdag oop wees vir die publiek volgens al die voorgestelde regulasies. • Lone Star Spur in die Middelburg Mall sal op hierdie stadium toe bly, tot daar verder oor dié restaurant se toekoms besluit word.