 Community members and farmers joined forces to clean up the town and make sure it is safe for tourists. No one is sure who is fueling the protests, but eyewitnesses say the majority of troublemakers are children who should be in school.
On Tuesday, angry protesters blocked the R540, destroyed signage, set fires to open velds and even farms. Farmers, community members, the police and fire department managed to get things under control and extinguish all fires.
Several arrests were made and POPS brought in Njalas to help keep the situation under control. One of the business owners in town said they received letters last week accusing employers of “stealing” government grants destined for employees, objecting to the retrenchment of workers and that foreigners are allowed to work in Dullstroom. Also read: Protesters block R540 at Dullstroom entrance “We have nothing to do with any of the Covid grants and we were forced to retrench people because there was no business for four months. We are just getting back on our feet and now this. This will cause more job losses if it continues,” the business owner said. A protester that called www.mobserver.co.za said that the protests was because “a police officer murdered a Zimbabwean boy” and also because of dissatisfaction with job opportunities and complaints about “corrupt councillors”. The protesters were waiting for the Emakhazeni mayor and councillors to address them at 15:00 today. Another Dullstroom resident, who was present on the murder scene, confirmed that someone was killed on Tuesday. But he said it was definitely not a boy that was killed and that the police were not involved in the death. “They are using the death as an excuse for violence.” He said that both the Dullstroom police and POPS handled yesterday’s situation as well as they could have. Farmers and community members jumped in to help clean up the town and private security companies patrolled the streets through the night to make sure that all was safe. Except for farms surrounding Sakhelwe that were set alight, fires were also started on empty stands and bushes.
On Wednesday, the police’s Public Order unit was still on the scene to maintain peace and order. Residents have pleaded with people to stop spreading messages on social media. “Everything is calm. The road is open, traffic is flowing and we are ready to welcome visitors over the weekend,” a resident said.