 News of an alleged ‘suicide note’ was published in The Sowetan recently. Sources close to the search told www.mobserver.co.za that police are skeptical about the so-called suicide note, saying that they suspect it is an attempt to throw them off Tshabalala’s trail. Tshabalala is facing two different criminal court cases, both relating to corruption and bribery charges, in the Middelburg and Witbank Magistrate’s Courts. Last week Friday’s court appearance in eMalahleni relates to his initial arrest in 2019 where he was charged with corruption, fraud and the illegal possession of a firearm for allegedly trying to interfere with an investigation into his citizenship. Also read: Warrent issued for Sam Holdings millionaire after no show at court He was granted R200 000 bail in the Witbank Magistrate’s Court shortly after his arrest in September. Tshabalala landed in hot water for a second time, this time in Middelburg, after he allegedly tried to bribe a police officer to stop investigating him as well as to get his car from the police pound. After a lengthy bail application, he was granted bail of R500 000. During his bail hearing in Middelburg, Magistrate Hlengiwe Mkhabela was quoted by News 24 as saying that she believes Tshabalala will not interfere with witnesses. This after Magistrate Mdumiseni Mavuso said during his bail application in eMalahleni that he did not see Tshabalala as a flight risk because of his strong family ties in South Africa. The Middelburg matter was postponed until 30 March. Also read: Sam Holdings millionaire arrested on charges of corruption, again During both his court appearances in Middelburg and eMalahleni, it was clear that Tshabalala enjoys widespread public (and public servant) support. After his release from custody in Middelburg, Tshabalala’s convoy of luxury cars was allowed access to the court cells, a no-go area to the public and even to official vehicles other than those transporting accused in custody. A Steve Tshwete Municipal traffic vehicle escorted the convoy to the cells and then out of Middelburg. Prudence Magutle, Steve Tshwete Municipal spokesperson, said that they are currently investigating the matter. She said that a traffic officer received a “bogus call” from what he thought was the Premier’s Office requesting an escort for Tshabalala. A source in the police force said that the whole incident is fishy. Also read: ‘Mshengu’ gets bail “How would a traffic official transport a suspect in a criminal matter when he knows it is usually the work of the police. Did he just accept without asking any questions or informing anybody else. I don’t buy it.” Here are some of the reader comments on a www.mobserver.co.za article about Tshabalala wanted by police: Derrick Majola: “Hands of Sam. Leave the guy alone, there are criminals that are known yet they roam around our streets (Sic).” Zakhele Bantuza Skosana: “Kom nou, julle maak ons deurmekaar. Julle het gesê die man was in die hof en nou soek die polisie hom? Julle gaan hom kry met die Vrrrpha 4 pyp konvooi na Bethal.” (Come now, you are confusing us. First, you said the man was in court and now the police are looking for him? You will find him with the Vrrpha four-pipe (slang for VW Golf GTI) convoy to Bethal.) Zanele Madonsela: Leave the guy alone… Focus on the corruption that the government is doing. I know him.