 •Every time we leave our homes, we are taking a potential risk; •Every time we allow people to stand in queues to purchase goods we could have purchased online, we are allowing a potential risk. But purchasing electricity and paying the rates and taxes for yourself, your neighbour, employees or relatives should not require anyone to leave the safety of their homes or to take any risk whatsoever (specifically in the state of an emergency our country is currently in). Ensure your health and safety as well as that of your loved ones by registering with Prepaid24, purchasing your electricity, and paying municipal rates and taxes safely, online. Prepaid24, the sole online provider of electricity in our municipality for the past three years, has developed a personal profile in which you can purchase electricity and pay municipal bills for up to 10 people. The positive impact that a single Steve Tshwete resident can have if he helped 1-10 other residents who would normally have had to stand in a queue to pay for services, would be massive, with the exposure to the risk of Covid-19 being drastically decreased for the whole community. If small and medium businesses assisted employees to recharge online, the impact would be even greater. We encourage you to do something that will cost you nothing extra (except for a little time to register initially) but that could save lives and jobs – much more than you think – in our area. With an online LiveChat facility, Prepaid24 has personal client support available from 07:00 – 23:00, 365 days of the year, with dedicated consultants ready to assist you with any questions you may have. Prepaid24 has made it their mission to help Steve Tshwete residents help their communities as well as their country. If you want a consultant to phone you and assist you with the registration process for both you and those you want to assist, please send an email with your contact details to covidassist@prepaid24.co.za. They will do their best to phone you as soon as an operator becomes available.You, Steve Tshwete, and Prepaid24: Making a difference. Together. Municipal Manager. BHEKI KHENISA.