It is important to note though, that even a limited ability to control your car when it goes into a skid on a wet road, can save your life and probably those of others too. MasterDrive now offers drivers an opportunity to learn these skills in a safe and yes, dry environment with guidance by experienced trainers. “Most drivers theoretically know how to respond should they find themselves in a dangerous skid or even start to spin out of control, yet it is another thing entirely to feel it first-hand,” says Eugene Herbert, MD. “Experiencing a full skid or the circumstances prior to losing control will take some of the shock and surprise out of the experience should you ever experience it on the road.  While one can never be fully prepared to lose control (otherwise we would prevent it from happening all together) it helps to experience it in a controlled and safe environment. “After a few rounds on MasterDrive’s M-Khana with an experienced trainer beside you, reacting safely and competently to a skid will become muscle memory. This means that if you brake suddenly in wet weather or take the corner too fast your instinct will kick in and take over so that the incident becomes nothing more than an ‘almost.’ You will undoubtedly still be left shaken but your first-hand experience in a simulated scenario will prove invaluable.” Masterdrive’s M-Khana course will not just expose you to the reality of a skid and its impact on your ability to respond, the experience will also create memory muscle which will improve your response to a skid when it happens. The experience will hopefully also make you more aware and conscious to drive slower on wet roads and in challenging conditions. Herbert stresses the fact that tactical security teams that face highly pressurised and high-risk driving environments, can benefit from the M-Khana. “It is an opportunity to put theory into practice.” M-Khana is eco-friendly.  “No water is required as MasterDrive has invested in specialised synthetic tyres that cause a vehicle to skid without water.” “The benefits of skid control and avoidance are far-reaching. There are very few, if any drivers, who can confidently say that undertaking the M-Khana will not benefit them. Take the opportunity to teach yourself a new skill while having a great time while you’re at it,” concluded Herbert. The value of a skid pan course to yourself from yourself, will be infinite – just do it! Source: MotorPress