 It is, however, not true that citizens are not allowed to spread any information about the Covid-19 coronavirus outbreak via WhatsApp or any other social media platforms. Citizens are warned that the intentional spreading of fake news will be prosecuted with jail terms of up to six months, a hefty fine, or both. Retired Constitutional Court Judge Ms Kate O’Regan was appointed on Friday to monitor the government’s interception of communications to safeguard the privacy and personal information of everyone whose communications have been traced and intercepted. The Director General of Health must file a weekly report with the Covid-19 designated Judge, Ms O’Regan, setting out the names and details of all persons whose location or movements were obtained. Judge O’Regan may also make such recommendations to cabinet members responsible for cooperative governance and traditional affairs, health and justice and correctional services. These recommendations could be regarding the amendment or enforcement of this regulation to safeguard the right to privacy. The department has set up a task team to monitor the spread of fake news, which is immediately reported to the respective social media platforms for removal. Wide-ranging cybercrime regulations have been implemented last year, which aim to reduce the spread of fake news while monitoring discrimination in terms of the Constitution and political propaganda. “It’s not true that the government is monitoring all communications of citizens regarding the spread of information on the Covid-19 pandemic, though it’s important to stem the spread of fake news which can ultimately lead to nationwide panic and lawlessness,” Mr Molakeng told www.mobserver.co.za. WhatsApp messages have been circulating like wildfire since early Monday, warning citizens and WhatsApp group administrators to stop posting any information about the pandemic on the social platform. It is true that only the national government and the Institute for Communicable Diseases can presently report on the infection rate and geographical areas affected, simply to stem the spread of fake news. Likewise, it’s true that the government has now adopted the interception of WhatsApp communications of citizens who have been infected, and their social media contacts and communications between them. The government is also now able to actively trace the location and movement of the infected and whomever they may have been in contact with, to stem the spread of the virus. Judge O’Regan will, however, be monitoring the interception of all private communications to assure that the privacy and personal information of citizens are protected.