 Executive Director for Community Services, Thokozile Zulu, said that they have witnessed a lot of people walking around and that they are not sure why such a large amount of people are out in public. “We are not the enemy of the public. We would also like to be safe at home with our families but we have to monitor the movements of people. It is awkward, we are clamping down on people to keep them alive but people are not appreciating that.” She said that when the lockdown was announced they had to identify a safe space to shelter the homeless as well as a quarantine area should it be needed. The situation with the homeless Kees Taljaard was identified as a location to shelter the homeless but they were later moved to a church ground due to the lack of control in confining their movement at the sports ground. There are currently 82 people and if the number exceeds 100 they will have to identify another space. The Department of Health sends a mobile clinic to visit the site daily. All the homeless have been screened and are receiving medical care according to their needs. Dr Hasim Tayob has volunteered to treat medical needs such as people struggling with drug withdrawal. The Department of Social development, the police and SASSA are also involved. Ms Zulu said that they have been in contact with family members of some of the homeless, and that there is hope that they might use this time to rehabilitate from their respective addictions. There is no clarity about whether they will continue to feed and house the homeless after the lockdown as that will depend on community donations and involvement. “There is no solid plan for after the 21 day lockdown. We were mandated to look for space to lock them down for 21 days.” She said that their movement is being constrained out of concerns that they might contract Covid-19 and infect other people without realizing it. Botshabelo as quarantine area There were concerns that Botshabelo does not have the facilities to act as a quarantine area, should the need arise, Ms Zulu said they are currently in negotiations with stakeholders to upgrade the facilities to make sure it is comfortable. Community must be responsible She appealed to the community for their cooperation during the lockdown and said that they should be responsible and refrain from disregarding lockdown regulations. “Don’t get into a taxi if there are too many people inside and don’t stand to close together in queues.” No foreign business during lockdown Ms Zulu said that no foreign owned shops will be allowed to operate during the lockdown. When asked why, she said that it is in an attempt to keep expired food from being sold, and also to keep money from going out of the country. “Money should rotate in the country. We will need strength to rebuild the economy after the lockdown,” she  said. No active cases in Middelburg MMC for Arts, Culture and Environmental Health, Johan Mashiane, said that there are currently no active Covid-19 cases in Middelburg. There are however four cases reported in the Nkangala District. Where to report rule-breakers Ms Zulu said that people who do not keep to the rule of confinement can be reported at the Traffic Department or the Middelburg police. Capt. Khanyisile Zwane, Middelburg police spokesperson, said that a WhatsApp can be sent to 082 462 1896. -The line is only to report people breaking the lockdown regulations and not for other crime. It is a one-way communication line. – Please include the street and address when reporting.