 National lockdown might be a vacation for some, but most see it as a prison sentence. We have spoken to three lockdown casualties for priceless hacks on how to survive and stay sane during your time of self-isolation.
The golden thread that seems to surface over and over again? Productivity and creativity. 22-year-old architectural student, Mr Asher de Jager, explains how he intends on surviving the 21-day lockdown. Asher mused that he is extremely privileged to be under lockdown on the farm with his family, where he enjoys more freedom of movement than most. Ruled by the iron fist of his mother, Asher and his siblings are bound by a strict chore schedule, making sure to keep them from getting under the feet of their mother. But the schedule is essential, says Asher, because it provides a good guideline of which tasks you can tackle first and get out of the way, “It is important to have something to wake up to. Make the most of this time to do the things you have been putting off for so long. Being a very active person, I find it imperative to stay busy”. Asher is sanding down window frames – among other things. Asher de Jager tending to his “flock”. •28-year-old teacher, Sigourney Gunn, is under lockdown with her family at the Loskop Nature Reserve. Once again, she and her family are fortunate to have more space than most. Sigourney has been keeping busy with work and lesson plans for her students, who are currently carrying on with their curriculum electronically. Sigourney explains that she is keeping busy by staying creative, “What you put into your work is a reflection of who you are. We as a family are putting more effort into preparing meals. Try cooking something different. By immersing yourself in something creative, whether it is sewing, cooking or sketching, you are pouring yourself into whatever you do”. Sigourney suggests that you should have a plan in place, have something to wake up to and spend time in the sun. Sigourney Gunn, preparing her lesson plans. •Martie Prinsloo is the secretary at a financial institution. Her age is being withheld for the safety of the journalist.
Martie explains that she and her family were well prepared for lockdown. They too operate under a strict schedule, but Martie emphasised the importance of fun as well. For a household to function, everyone needs to play a role in its maintenance and upkeep, and each family member has a turn to provide the entertainment as well. Martie makes sure that she takes a photo of something every day, she spends ten minutes in the sun, and she believes that people should look for the beauty in things, “A lot of us live past our family members, and we should cherish this time by spending it with our loved ones. The children will remember these moments so parents should play with them and have fun together”. Rina and Martie Prinsloo.