 The local factory is distributing around 2 600 loaves of white and brown bread each week to various Non-Governmental Organisations during the national lockdown. Blue Ribbon is also spending around R12 000 monthly on a water filtration system to ensure that employees and NGO’s have access to clean water.
Employees are allowed 10 litres of filtered water every day. A filtration system of R18 000 was purchased and installed on the bakery’s borehole. Apart from the needy, Blue Ribbon Bakery also supports the town’s essential workers with ten loaves of bread given daily to the Middelburg and Mhluzi Police Stations, the local traffic department, as well as the fire station. Due to lockdown regulations, all loaves destined for the hungry and destitute are delivered daily to Feed A Child, who in turn distribute to the respective recipients.
The homeless being housed at Solid Ground Church receive 50 loaves of bread daily from Monday to Saturday. For the next 15 days, Blue Ribbon will also donate R2 000 daily, of which R6 000 has been earmarked for KoppieStraat, who will receive R1 000 worth of meat and vegetables, mainly two days apart, 6 to 17 April. Some bread donations to NGO’s which have been closed due to the national lockdown have been re-allocated to active feeding schemes. Apart from the bread staple, on Monday Blue Ribbon Bakery donated a consignment of infant formula Pre-NAN Pelargon 1-3, Lactogen 1-4, maize porridge, powdered milk, baby wipes, Vaseline, baby powder and feeding bottles to the Umephi Orphanage. The donation to the orphanage will be repeated on April 14. The following donations are being made: • Monday: 766 loaves of bread between the Bethesda House of Safety, CMR, Heart/Soul/Mind Project, Prayer Oven, school feeding schemes, Wondershoek, the Victim Support Centre, Feed A Child, Rosebuds Service Centre, Asikhambeni, Garment of Praise, Umephi Orphanage, the Care Village, Helpende Hand, Takalani and the SAVF. • Tuesday: 450 loaves of bread between Corpus Christi, Greater Nkangala Rehabilitation Centre, Feed A Child, school feeding schemes, Hope Corner, Mid Hartklop, Mombuyiselo, By Grace Feeding Scheme, Lee Boerdery, the NG Church and One Light Life Beyond Disability Centre and Orphanage. • Wednesday: 144 loaves of bread between Wondershoek, Feed A Child, Rosebud Service Centre, the Democratic Alliance and the SAVF. • Thursday: 552 loaves of bread between Heart/Soul/Mind Project, Oorwinaars, Feed A Child, Asikhambeni, Garment of Praise, Umephi Orphanage, Care Village, Helpende Hand, Takalani, Mid Hartklop, By Grace Feeding Scheme, Lee Boerdery and One Light Life Beyond Disability Centre and Orphanage. • Friday: 614 loaves of bread between the CMR, Greater Nkangala Rehabilitation Centre, Koppiestraat, Prayer Oven, Victim Support Centre, Wondershoek, Feed A Child, Middelburg Muslim Women’s Forum, Rosebud Service Centre, Hope Corner and the SAVF. • Sunday: 70 loaves between Divine Life and Spirit Ministries and Redemption Centre Ministries.