 While toll plazas across the country remain operational Trans African Concessions (TRAC) has imposed strict measures at its mainline and ramp plazas in an effort to protect road users as well as employees. These procedures are in line with the guidelines of the World Health Organisation, Departments of Health and Labour and are aimed at proactively responding to the call by the national government for all South Africans to assist in combatting the spread of this disease. Apart from training all plaza personnel on personal hygiene and COVID-19 protocol, the following measures have also been implemented for the duration of the lockdown period: •Plazas will work with a skeleton staff complement for the duration of the lockdown. Only the automatic electronic tag lane and one manual lane per direction will be operational at mainline plazas; • Sanitation and cleaning activities have been intensified at all plazas; • Hand and surface sanitisers have been placed in toll booths as well as throughout plaza buildings; •Toll operators are sanitising their hands frequently in between toll transactions; •Toll booth surfaces and equipment are disinfected at the start and end of every shift; • Thermometers are used at all plazas to measure the temperature of employees at the start of each shift. •Access to facilities has been restricted. Only core personnel that is on duty is permitted to enter plazas and toll booths. TRAC would like to remind the public that this pandemic can only be contained if all South Africans work together. Therefore, road users are urged to travel only in the event of an emergency or if they are essential service providers. We further encourage users to make use of an Automatic Electronic Tag as this is the best way to avoid direct contact with toll operators. As an essential service, TRAC will continue to assist road users with enquiries, road-related incidents, accidents and emergencies on the N4 Toll Route throughout this period. We will also continue to provide essential route maintenance services to ensure that the N4 route remains safe and trafficable during the lockdown period. Our 24-hours Helpdesk is fully operational and can be contacted telephonically on 0800 87 22 64 or 082 881 4444 (RSA) or +258 84 34 34 34 6 (Mozambique) or by email at helpdesk@tracn4.co.za. For more information please follow them on Facebook (TracN4), Twitter (TRACN4route) or go to www.tracn4.co.za.