 According to Brigadier Leonard Hlathi, the sixteen year-old appeared in court on Tuesday and was released into the care of his mother as he awaits his next appearance. The teenager was arrested on Sunday 2 February after allegedly shooting his grandfather at their home in Dullstroom. According to Brig. Hlathi, the boy and his grandfather had a heated argument, after which the teenager went into his grandfather’s room to fetch a pellet gun and shot him in the chest. The 63 year-old pensioner fell to the floor and was declared dead on the scene by paramedics. According to gun handler, Theo Neetling from Safari Ammunition, it is more than possible to kill some one with a pellet gun. Also read: Dullstroom boy allegedly shoots grandfather For a shot from an air rifle to be fatal, depends on a series of variables, like whether the gun operates with Spring/Nitro or PCP, as well as which bullets are being used. Neetling explained that air rifles have advanced over time, some of them carrying enough joules to kill antelope and buffalo. Regardless of how much impact the weapon carries, even the most basic pellet gun can kill someone if it has been loaded with the right bullets or points. Some air rifles today, are designed to shoot a projectile of 45 calibre, at well over 1000 feet per second. Regardless of how fatal these weapons are, it still falls under the air rifle category and users are not obliged to possess a firearm license to own or use one. “The problem with pellet guns is that despite how fatal they can be, anybody can acquire one. These weapons are available at most hobby shops, and people misinterpret them as toys. Regardless of the fact that they can be purchased without a licence, it is still against the law to point or discharge one, whether it is loaded or unloaded, in a built up or public area,” Mr Neetling explained. Neetling also added that there is a fine line between reaction and intent when it comes to the use of a weapon in self defense. “Whether it is a knife, a baseball bat or a gun, the minute you raise it at someone it counts as pointing of a weapon. If you were to shoot or stab somebody in self defense, the court will look at whether it was done in reaction or done with intent. If somebody has threatened your life and you react by grabbing a weapon, it may still count as self defense, but walking away from the threat to arm yourself counts as intent.”