 “We are proud to announce the launch of the new Dullstroom Village Market – a new arts, crafts, antiques, flea market and farmers market.” The market will be launched on the first commercially viable Saturday following the lifting of the current leisure, travel and accommodation restrictions, “We expect Dullstroom to ‘buzz’ that weekend!” said Deysel. “In the meantime, we are inviting interested vendors/traders to register by sending an email to dullstroomvillagemarket@yahoo.com and to start building their stock/merchandise. All registered vendors will be notified of the date via WhatsApp, email and our Facebook page,” he said. The market will consist of five sections. In applying for registration, vendors must select a section, describing the kind of merchandise they want to sell. The sections are: • Arts and Crafts: High quality, hand-made and home-made in South Africa • Antiques: Genuine, high-quality antiques including early edition books (great interest locally in the Second Anglo-Boer War) • Farmers Market: High quality, fresh produce, flowers, free-range eggs, game and beef meat and biltong from the local farmers • Flea Market: Bric-a-brac but no electronics, no second-hand clothes, nothing sold out of plastic crates and no “same-old same-old” goods • Food Court: Fresh, home-made or made-on-site food only “The cost per stand has not been finalised. As we know that market vendors have been suffering due to the Covid-19 restrictions, we are asking them to suggest a reasonable and affordable amount which should be included in the email registration application,” Deysel said. Special accommodation arrangements have been made for vendors who wish to stay over. Rooms (limited number) start at R250 per night per person sharing, “Once the date has been set and communicated to the registered vendors, they should book early!” The nominated charity is Epilepsy South Africa (Dullstroom), they are in great need of all things necessary to care for 84 patients who are in residence and receive 24/7 care. Contact Munro Deysel at the Dullstroom Village Market on 082 075 4060 or email dullstroomvillagemarket@yahoo.com.