 The bulk of the arrests were effected because residents failed to confine themselves to their homes or were driving around without the necessary permit.
A large number of foreigners operating illegal spaza shops were also arrested. On May 3, Nigerian national Christian Okenna was arrested for illegally running a spaza shop, during the clampdown on Okenna’s shop in Rockdale, polic allegedly also discovered drugs. Apart from dealing in drugs, Okenna will also face criminal charges for the breach of national lockdown regulations in regards to essential service delivery.
According to Captain Khanyisile Zwane, residents do not understand what curfew regulations are, resulting in them being arrested. “No one is allowed to be out and about between 20:00 and 05:00 daily, apart from permitted essential service providers, after eight o’clock at night you should be in bed,” Captain Zwane said. She says more roadblocks, like the ones on Friday and Saturday around the Middelburg Mall, will be conducted. “No children are allowed at the mall if they are not there for the acquisition of essential goods like medical consultations or clothes, the rule of thumb is three people per car with masks,” Captain Zwane warned. There’s also a lot of confusion with the opening of cellphone shops, especially foreign-owned ones. “A meeting will be scheduled soon for more clarity,” Captain Zwane said, adding that, “Residents can only exercise between 06:00 to 09:00 daily, transgressors will face arrest.” •Five Extension 18 residents have been arrested for hosting a party in Komati Street. The four men and one woman was taken into custody and a spot fine of R1500 was imposed on each. Desmond Mokoena, Paul Seokama, Steven Mahlangu, Welcome Molapo and Queen Madiba will all appear in court again on June 23.
They have been charged with breaching national lockdown regulations. The party was broken up by police after a neighbour reported the gathering.
Other neighbours also reported a noise disturbance caused by the party. Captain Zwane warned that no one is allowed to visit neighbours or friends for social purposes during the extended level 4 lockdown.
“You will have a criminal record if you don’t listen and stay home,” the Captain warned. A national curfew compels residents to stay indoors from 20:00 to 05:00 daily, and only residents with night permits will be allowed to travel.