 The tourism centre will only open once lockdown Level 3 is announced. Up to now, chamber personnel have been working mostly from home, supporting chamber members with ongoing research and advice. Chamber CEO Ms Anna-Marth Ott says that lockdown has allowed the chamber to focus on the development of several projects, like the takeover of Hendrina and Komati Power Stations, set to be decommissioned by Eskom. “It’s too early to determine the true financial impact Covid-19 lockdown has had on businesses and landlords,” Ms Ott told the Middelburg Observer on Monday. Ms Ott and her personnel have fielded thousands of calls during lockdown from concerned business owners facing several battles, most notably, landlords with tenants refusing to pay rent. “As a rule we don’t get involved in our member’s household issues, we supply advice and guidance, do research, break down legislation impacting business and also refer our members to businesses or professionals who can assist with their issues,” Ms Ott explained. According to Ms Ott, there’s been a dramatic increase in calls from landlords whose tenants refuse to pay rent. “Many property owners have large buildings with multiple tenants who refuse to pay because their businesses are closed, yet they expect uninterrupted services like water and electricity, security and other perks,” Ms Ott says, adding that “the domino effect will impact the local economy even more adversely”. In between calls for advice and information, the chamber has shifted its focus to other projects, like the takeover of Hendrina and Komati Power Plants, to boost the local economy once the lockdown has been lifted fully, and to ensure that Middelburg could become self-reliant for its electricity supply. “A workable plan is already on the table,” she hinted, adding, “We are ready to move forward with all relevant stakeholders, like Eskom.” Though calls have drastically increased to the chamber from both members and non-members, most around essential services permits, membership has not increased. “We may see an increase in membership once lockdown has been lifted, but for now, there’s been none,” Ms Ott says. “Because of the economy, non-members believe that our support must be free, and though we realise its tough times for businesses, we must also survive,” Ms Ott says. Membership fees vary from R1 000 to R4 700 per year, depending on the size of the business. “Being a member allows the business access to all other members for support, advice or services, it gives the business fantastic networking opportunities, while the chamber continues with intensive business research, while also unbundling legal and industry jargon to assist businesses to grow,” Ms Ott says. “We’re here to assist, we’ve been working all along, and we remain open to all,” Ms Ott concluded.