The only subsidy they get is the subsidy from Social Development and that only covers part of the staff salaries. Although the office is continuously exploring ways of generating funds, they are obliged to also rely on the financial contributions from the community, like the recent “Beauty in a Box” competition. • Ms Henriëtte van Staden (Regional Manager, SAVF) explains on the video why the “Beauty in a Box” project was born and she thanks the community for their help. • The SAVF was founded as a welfare organisation in 1904 in Pretoria by Ms Georgiana Solomon. Since then the SAVF has been changing people’s lives for the better. The SAVF Welfare Office in Middelburg is situated at 52 Walter Sisulu Street and is a registered non-profit welfare organisation. In itself, the organisation is rendering an integrated, holistic, social welfare service to the community of Middelburg and its surrounding areas. Services are rendered to individuals and families regardless of their race, gender, religion or sexual orientation. These services involve preventative services, which include awareness campaigns at schools and in communities, addressing several important social issues, like drug abuse, child protection and parental guidance. Services are also rendered to the elderly and assisting them with finding placements in old age care facilities. The office also focuses on poverty relief and assisting individuals and families with food parcels and clothing, when needed. Statutory services involve the protection of all children that are found abandoned, exposed to physical, mental and emotional neglect and abuse, as well as sexual abuse and exploitation. Assistance is also provided to people to obtain identity documents, as well as applications for social grants. The Middelburg office has four full-time qualified and registered social workers and one social auxiliary worker. These professionals are continuously involved in attending training workshops to improve their professional skills and maintaining a high standard of service delivery. The social workers are also trained as mediators to assist families during divorce cases, in order to reach a prior agreement regarding guardianship, care, contact and maintenance where children are involved. For more information on their projects, call their office on 013 282 4413. For more information, watch the video by clicking on the link below: https://fb.watch/1nylGLr16q/ 