“Six vendors from the first market reported that they had the best ever sales at a market. Four of our food vendors either ran out of food completely or ran out of some of their ingredients. All of them have booked stands again,” said Deysel. “The food, flea market and crafts vendors seem to have done best of all. And we could contribute a couple of thousand rand to Epilepsy South Africa (Dullstroom), our nominated beneficiary! With help of our vendors, we aim to increase this amount with each market.” For the second market there currently are some 30 vendors stands registered. The market is intended to present unique, high quality and home-made arts, crafts, goods, food and fresh produce. Being held on the last day of October, the second market will be held with an “Oktoberfest” theme with a beer tent, bratwurst, knackwurst, Thüringen and sauerkraut. “No one is obligated, but wherever possible ladies are asked to wear the look of a traditional dirndl dress, which is worn with a white blouse and white apron. Men are asked to wear lederhosen, which are knee-length pants with suspenders attached. Best dressed lady and man will each win a traditional German meal and beer!” As with the first market aim of the market is to: •Benefit Dullstoom through attracting vendors and tourists. •Generate much needed income for local businesses. •Help stimulate economic growth and job creation in Dullstroom. •Promote local artists, craftsmen and young entrepreneurs. •To promote local traditional culture through traditional dances, coral choirs, etc. •To benefit local charities with SANEL being our nominated beneficiary. Commercial vendors are invited to register by sending an email to dullstroomvillagemarket@yahoo.com As the market will consist of five categories, vendors are asked to select a category, describing the kind of merchandise they want to sell. The categories are: 1. Arts and Crafts: high quality hand-made and home-made goods 2. Antiques: genuine, high quality antiques including early edition books (great interest in the Second Anglo-Boer War) 3. Farmers Market: high quality, fresh produce, flowers, free range eggs, game and beef meat and biltong from the local farmers; 4. Flea Market: bric-a-brac but no electronics, no second hand clothes, nothing sold out of plastic crates and no “same-old-same-old” goods. 5. Food Court: Home-made or made-on-site food only. The cost per stand is R300.00 for a 3m x 3m stand. Organisers are willing to discuss charging a percentage of turnover instead of a flat fee. Special accommodation arrangements have been made for vendors who wish to stay over. Rooms (limited number) start at R250 per night per person sharing. Registered vendors, they should book as soon as possible! The nominated charity is Epilepsy South Africa (Dullstroom) who are in great need of all things necessary to care for 80 patients who are in residence and receive 24/7 care. Contact: Munro Deysel (Mr.)
Dullstroom Village Market
082 075 4060
dullstroomvillagemarket@yahoo.com 